I have to tell you I'm so excited that
you're here I really am thank you for
coming thanks great to have you here
you're born here in Brooklyn going right
here in Brooklyn you live where what
part of the city - do you have the
borough did you live I lived in Bushwick
in Bushwick right on on Linden Street
between Bushwick and Broadway would you
like to do when you were a kid growing
up here I think you moved to Long Island
or 11 right yeah years old okay
what would you do what were your
activity is what were you into out here
yeah just a basic stuff you know back
then we used to play in the street
nice Kelly mm-hmm hot peas and butter
[Laughter]
dude did you play no we didn't play hot
Pete what is hot peas I mean you would
take a take like a belt and you would
like hide it somewhere and everybody
would try to look for it when they get
closer to Louie and hot you get hot and
then when they finally did hot peas and
butter and they could whip you I know
now I know why we didn't play it so if
you found the belt you would get whipped
with it know everybody has to run back
to the basin anyone that that you caught
you couldn't beat them with the back
yeah now that would be on the news if
you did something like that and would
you go like to Carville or Nathan's or
loads of Carvel's when you go out to
Long Island out here we didn't go to
harbor no we've been to Nathan's hmm
Coney Island would you go on the rides
at Coney Island oh yeah yeah really yeah
the hell they had the hell hold back
there okay standing it was spinning a
circle and you press it to the wall then
afterwards you throw up they sell more
hot dogs that way I think
would you get in fights when you're a
kid here in Brooklyn was there a lot of
fighting on your block because on my
block there was non-stop fighting all
the time yeah we got into fights yeah
and you did if you live in Brooklyn
you've been jumping until we got jumped
me and Charlie got jumped and uh back in
the 60s and early 70s they had these
gang
he's Kangol hats these beaver hats and
he would back them you would take a baby
oil and put it on your hat and you would
just sit up and just keep smoothing your
head out and it was cool and me and
Charlie I had a blue one Charlie had a
green one and they jumped us on the bus
stop and they stomped out Beavis they're
so jealous they beat us up and stopped
them see that a weird thing they would
do they wouldn't even steal stuff on my
block they'd steal your sneakers and
then they tie the laces together and
they'd throw them up onto the power yeah
and then you you'd have to walk by your
own shoes all the time
it's especially humiliating I didn't
know this about you and this delights me
to know when when did he start doing
ventriloquism that was actually the
first thing I asked my mother for when I
was about eight years old I asked for a
ventriloquist dummy was it Charlie
McCarthy don't know it was a dummy
called Willy talked Willy chocolates
Willie talk okay and his eyes didn't
move though he was just just looking
straight out and you would do who like
friends and so I would not Chyna you
know make mom you know talking that move
my legs and could you do that and talk
without moving your lips
how's pretty good that's pretty good you
were not good enough to you know to
follow it Yeah right probably a good
idea that you didn't follow it but do
you do that anymore
you entertain your children with this
sort of stuff I have two ventriloquist
dummies now you do yes but they're of
people that I know like I have a couple
of friends that are characters and if I
could do like their voice like I sing or
name-value young used to sing with Rick
James I could do like her voice so I had
a ventriloquist dummy made it looks just
like her so when we're going
trip sometimes I pull the dummy out
she'll be talking does about
it's very very fun this vowel like the
dumb she loves she loves it she called
the dumb you know should go go bring out
the Valdosta dummy in your life Paul
Mooney ever palm ball morning so I do
him while he's there and I did a dummy
talking it's it if you're part of the
little circle it's very funny you will
get ya will was Paul's reaction when you
produce the dummy for the first time he
said you're crazy you have lost your
earlier this year I was at a party at
your house and thank you for I don't
know if you invited me or not but I came
I was I was very excited to be there and
embarrassingly I was the first one to
show up I was the first one yeah there
were the people who were there were
there like kind of hanging out with you
to start with and I walked in and you
and Arsenio were watching youtube videos
and I was just like oh my god this is
just what I prayed it would be like and
they were quite a few comedians there a
Chris Rock was there Dave Chappelle was
er Jamie Foxx Sasha Sasha Baron Cohen
was there and do you are you aware of
how like giddy we were to be in your
house what was a party I know they were
just kidding from you yeah no we were
giddy to be in your house and we had
conversations about it and it's funny to
be with like Chris Rock who you know is
you know this unbelievable or Dave
Chappelle these guys who are like oh my
god I can't believe we're in Eddie
Murphy's house they've been in my house
he still can't believe it
so you I guess
and one of the things that we're all
excited about is this idea that you are
planning to return to stand-up comedy
yes
which is a little bit like hearing
Michael Jordan's gonna play basketball
again but without the physical element
there and I mean because you know you
really I'm sure you're aware of how much
you mean to everyone especially of a
certain age group that I happen to be on
one end of you are you worried that you
cannot live up to this this thing you
have you created now I'll be worrying
about stuff like that
I'm I tend to think constructively what
I'm thinking about something creative
I'm doing something creative I'll think
about I want to think I'm thinking about
how making it as funny as possible so I
want to shut down when I do it I'll be
going how do you thinking like oh what's
gonna happen what are they gonna say it
I'm gonna put me on a YouTube that's
just part of the world now are you the
kind of person who walk out in front of
an audience and spot one woman who's not
laughing
he's not live her name is Anne she's
she's laughing now but I got
okay we're gonna take a break we're
gonna we come back we're gonna see a
clip from Eddie's great new movie
Dolomites is my name Eddie what do you
want
FBI what do you want man where's your
warrant a this badge is my warrant open
up the trunk for a long time you gonna
have to take me
it is on Netflix now it is in new
reviews - oh what a funny well it's
explained to the white people who don't
know who dollar might is dolomite is
this character that a comedian named
Rudy ray Moore came up with and Rudy ray
Moore is a comedian from the 70s like
it's Underground
comic and that I was just been a fan of
for years you loved him you and your
brother well not just up he has like a
little cult following of people that
like his movie started out they were
kind of like stoner pictures like people
would you smoke weed and watch his
movies good look you can see the
microphone come in the shot so that's
why people started watching them early
on then it kind of developed into when I
started making movies at a whole
different appreciation for him I was
like yo this guy he financed these
movies himself and he kind of put it all
together itself he did his records the
same way and he became like one of my
heroes he's it's it is an inspirational
stories that totally inspirational
figure this is a guy who was determined
to be successful and he tried as a
musician and as a dancer and then he
just found his side of his thing playing
this character dolomite and really did
it risked everything everything and you
met we've been trying to make this for a
long time right yeah about 15 years ago
I approached him about it he yet he was
like man let's go on tour together they
want to see us onstage man why do you
think he wasn't interested in you
playing I think the idea of a movie
about him just sounded ridiculous to him
was like how could things sound
ridiculous to him but they add you
accompany we're gonna make a Hollywood
movie about how you did aw you made
dolomite gnarly to him at the moment it
sounded like that's that's not something
that's gonna happen Wow really even with
you know you know I think I might have
just been coming off of a movie like
Pluto Nash - he was like man they can be
like
let's go on Tony do you got stiffed by
dolomite well yeah because the movie I
went and watch the original and that
scene is almost identical to the scene
in the real bunch of stuff we went to
the same locations and we did went we
shot we have exact outfits and cars and
it's just Craig Brewer who directed it
just really didn't respond it's really
really good and Wesley Snipes is great
in it too he is so funny in this movie
now you're a mysterious man you're aware
of that right because um I must yes you
are mysterious you are so I want to run
through a few random questions if you'd
be so kind as to solve these mysteries
for us you turned down the chance to be
part of we are the world in the we are
of the world video is that true you go
and turn it down I was I was doing
something else and they Stevie I wasn't
Stevie Wonder studio anything I was
working on some music and he was like eh
come over we're doing this thing you
know and I was like hey man up I'm
recording a song party all the time
I was doing some other then they called
then I realized afterwards what it was
and I feel like an idiot right before
you God does they don't this really
heavy song or we are the world
yeah you were fired from a job at
McDonald's true no I quit the job you
quit the job on the ball I was fired
from Chandler shoes
Chandler shoes is this right before SNL
oh yeah right before yeah and you're
gonna be returning to host SNL for the
first time
35 years first time in 35 years that's
gonna be something great huh I hope so I
hope so too
have you started thinking it will you do
any of your classic character hopes oh
yeah I would imagine I'd do some of that
stuff yeah but that show you can't
really prepare you can't prepare it
happens on the Monday and it's over on
Saturday you can't really get rid but
Gumby is timeless real oh yeah and I'm
trying to figure out some reason to do a
velvet Jones oh yeah and mr. mr.
Robinson's neighborhood well there's
certainly been a resurgence of Mister
Rogers in the recent year so I don't see
why you couldn't do something like that
do you um in a funny buckwheat skin are
you aware do you read the reviews of
your movies oh you do not well you
should on this one because it's like 99
percent on Rotten Tomatoes and people
are saying you might win an Oscar for
this role well I have to say it is so
exciting to have you here especially
here in Brooklyn and I really appreciate
it and I think I speak on behalf of
everyone that we are thrilled that you
are back in making movies and doing
stand-up comedy and giving us your all
really is
[Applause]
hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel and I am not allowed
to eat this cookie until you click the
subscribe button so please click now I'm
hungry